



Blog and Social Media Content
Weddings at The Lakehouse Restaurant

 

Love is always in the air at The Lakehouse Restaurant, but it’s even more apparent when couples choose to make us part of their union celebration. Couples from all over have taken or renewed their vows at our venue, and we are proud to give them an experience they’ll never forget.

To-be-married couples should contact us as early as possible to plan their event, since our availability for hosting weddings is usually booked and planned a year or two in advance. We have been known to fit in a wedding sooner than that, but decor and food choices may be limited due to time constraints. With a year or two to help plan, we’ve been able to customize the wedding and reception down to the smallest details, from hand-knit organic cotton napkins to customized artisan-crafted gifts for each guest. 

The average wedding in the U.S. has at least 175 guests and over a dozen in the wedding party. Our venue is best suited for an intimate wedding of around 75 guests or fewer. Don’t get us wrong, we love large weddings, too—but we love love LOVE (and pride ourselves on) creating a customized luxurious, extraordinary, and memorable experience for each person in attendance. A smaller wedding like this can make everyone feel like an integral part of the celebration and can more closely reflect and represent the couple’s personalities and quirks. 

 

Kristen and Mark Bersat wanted a vintage-inspired holiday wedding with a giving theme. One of the custom touches they wanted was to use mismatched vintage silver flatware for each setting. After the wedding, the beautiful flatware was to be donated to Kristen and Mark’s favorite charity—Tiny Paws Rescue—for its annual auction. Invitations included handwritten cards that requested that guests donate to Tiny Paws in lieu of gifts. 

Over the year leading up to the Bersat wedding, our team collected enough vintage mis-matched silver flatware for each plate at their dinner, with a few extras. Nearly every employee at The Lakehouse Restaurant was in on the vintage flatware hunt! We also hired a local craftsperson to knit small holiday hats for the serving spoons (yes, you read that correctly!), as well as custom stockings for each guest. As kitschy as spoon-hats might sound, in context they gave perfect pops of red among the stunning silver and white settings. Tiny Paws Rescue brought in over $20,000 with Kristen and Mark’s donation. 

We hold quarterly webinars about our wedding services. To sign up for our webinar, or for questions about our wedding services, send us an email at weddings@lakehousefood.com.

For the love of chocolate
 
We aren’t in the habit of giving our secrets away, but we’ve been receiving so many messages asking us about our cioccolata calda (hot chocolate) that we’ve succumbed to the pressure and have decided to let you in on the nuances of our recipe. 

We say nuances because one of the beauties of true hot chocolate is its versatility and openness to customization depending on your tastes. Another beauty is that it is a simple recipe with straightforward ingredients, with results largely dependent on your patience and preferences. 
The Ingredients
We’ll start with the obvious: the best hot chocolate is made with the best chocolate. Calling a particular chocolate the ‘best’ is subjective, though, so you can use what you prefer. We prefer a dark at-least-70-percent chocolate because it adds so much depth and richness to the flavor. Feel free to go with a chocolate that leans toward the semi-sweet side if it’s your preference.
The second key ingredient is milk. We use locally sourced organic whole milk. It makes us shudder a bit to say this, but you can also use lower-fat milk or non-dairy milk such as almond milk or oat milk—even water if that’s what you prefer. 

And then there’s all the other ingredients, with the only two must-haves being sugar and salt. This is where you can experiment to your heart’s content with other flavors, from cinnamon to vanilla, chili powder to touches of mint. 

Ingredients
4 cups milk of your choice
2 tablespoons white or brown sugar (use what you prefer)
6 ounces dark chocolate
A pinch of kosher salt

Optional ingredients to steep in the milk
Whole vanilla bean
Vanilla bean caviar
Cinnamon stick

Optional ingredients to add for flourish
Chili powder
Cayenne powder
Cocoa powder
Cinnamon
Chocolate shavings
Orange zest

Put milk in a saucepan over low heat and add the sugar and optional steeping ingredients (cinnamon stick, vanilla bean, and/or vanilla bean caviar). Heat to a simmer and remove the pan from heat. Let steep for about 15 minutes, then remove the bean and the stick and any other solid ingredient you might have added.

Melt the chocolate in a double boiler. Once the chocolate is melted, put your pan of milk back on the stove over medium low heat. Pour the chocolate in slowly, whisking until the chocolate is completely mixed in with the milk and the liquid mixture is hot. Add your pinch of salt, any optional ingredients for flavor and decorative flourishes, or only add the salt and sprinkle a flourish on the poured espresso. Serve in espresso cups with optional store-bought or homemade marshmallows.

Enjoy! And let us know how it turns out. Post photos and comments using the hashtag #LakehouseChocolate.






Chef Hina Bradford joins Cookoff for Charity

 

We’re excited to announce that Chef Hina Bradford, from the renowned New York Japanese vegan restaurant HINA, will be joining us next month for our annual benefit, Cookoff for Charity in our Rochester, New York location. Chef Bradford joins three other food experts, including our own talented Chef Marna Alessi, in judging incredible dishes that are made by students at Martrese Culinary School. Each student makes their choice of food for the judges. Once the judges have tasted the dish, the dishes are bid on by attendees, and the student will make the dish for their dish’s high bidder. The profits from the auction go to three area food banks that serve surrounding families with quality fresh fruits, vegetables, breads, and meats throughout the year. 

Chef Hina is known for her acumen with greens and vegetables. Her interest stems from the meaning of her first name. 

“‘Hina’” has the literal translation of “vegetables and greens” in Japanese, explains Bradford. When needing to decide on a focus of study in culinary school, she wasn’t sure what she wanted to do. On a whim, she decided to follow her eponym and concentrate on vegetarian and vegan dishes. She fell in love with both the flavors and the challenges, she tells us. She quickly gained a reputation for ingenuity and creativity. She opened HINA in 2017.

If you’re interested in attending the Cookoff, head over to www.lakehousefood.com and register under Events. Tickets sell out fast, so don’t wait!


You like us! You really like us!
The Lakehouse Restaurant wins Best Restaurant... Again!
 


We’re so proud to have won the Consumer’s Choice Best Restaurant Award for the third year in a row. It wasn’t easy—it never has been—since we have such admirable competitors in our area and beyond.

Our entire team wants to thank each and every one of you, whether you voted for us or not. We learn from all of you, and serving you amazing food is our absolute favoritest thing in the world. 

To celebrate this honor, this weekend our menu will include a Winner Winner Chicken Dinner special, featuring our chef’s spectacular Chicken Under a Brick with baby potatoes, garden-fresh leeks, and her special blend of spices and herbs. Reservations are encouraged! And thank you again!










The Lakehouse Restaurant team helps local housing non-profit

 

Caption: Francisco Chavez and Lori Ama, both employees at The Lakehouse Restaurant, start an interior painting project.

For the last two Mondays, a handful of The Lakehouse Restaurant employees, in our Chicago location, have dedicated a day of their time to helping build safe and affordable housing in our area. Besides lending some brute strength to a build, several of our team have basic carpentry and painting skills and can help with more detailed projects within the house. 

“There is nothing more rewarding than helping to make a home for a local family,” says Lori Ama, one of our kitchen crew. “Giving back to our community is one of the reasons I love working for The Lakehouse Restaurant. It just feels right.”

Sous chef Francisco Chavez agrees. “I’ve been able to do this for several years now, and it’s always rewarding.” He adds, “There’s not much better than the looks on a family’s faces when they see their home for the first time.” 

Those interested in helping should contact Heidi Sommers at hsommers@lakehousefood.com. 



Facebook



Baba ghanoush is one of our favorite foods to make, eat, and pronounce—and now it’s one of our favorite appetizers at The Lakehouse Restaurant. If you’ve never had it before, now’s your chance. At its most basic level, baba ghanoush is made of eggplant, tahini, olive oil, lemon juice, garlic, and salt, and we add a couple of secret ingredients to ours for a special flare. Baba ghanoush is similar to hummus since most of its ingredients are the same, but the base of roasted eggplant rather than garbanzo beans gives it a different flavor and mouthfeel. Come check it out next time you’re in for a meal!


 


We’re now taking reservations for our annual Mother’s Day Brunch! Our brunch features several egg dishes, specialty breakfast sandwiches, tons of fresh fruit, fresh juice, fresh smoothies, and more! Find your local restaurant and set up your reservation here.




You might be surprised that we are experts at putting together surprises for you and your guests. Is your group celebrating a birthday? We can provide the treats you request. Want a simple dinner party for an anniversary? We can help with that, too. Check out all our surprising services today.




CHEESE THE DAY! Nothing is as heart and tummy warming as our spectacular macaroni and cheese, so leave the lunch box at home and come in for some extra gooey cheesy goodness today. And since we love you, mention CHEESE THE DAY and get a free Caesar side salad! Today only. #CheeseTheDay



 


We put the ahhhhh!!! into Ahi Tuna. Just in time for summer, our Seared Ahi Tuna salad is a perfect, healthy lunch to keep you going for the rest of the day. Available for a limited time! #TLHSpecial


 


We’re ramping up for company party season—are you? Call our catering team and we’ll help take the pressure off. #HolidayParty #CompanyParty #CorporateParty 





Join us at noon on May 16 to learn about and taste wild and cultivated edible flowers, along with our expert friends at local florists. RSVP here.  #EdibleFlowers 


 


Do you love chocolate as much as we do? If so, head over to read our blog post that lets you in on the secret to making real (and amazing) hot chocolate at home. 



Twitter
 


The Lakehouse Restaurant Vegan club is the best club around: Organic bread with seitan, tahini, roasted eggplant, tomatoes, cashew cheese, avocado, and pickles. #YUM. #Vegan #ClubSandwich #Vegetarian



 


We promise not to judge you when you ask for bacon on your Vegan Club sandwich. #BaconRules #Bacon #VeganSandwich #mmmBacon



Want to give us a hand? We’re hiring at our flagship restaurant in Maine! Check out job descriptions via the link in our bio. #TeamLakehouse #RestaurantJobs



Special Mother’s Day brunch next weekend at The Lakehouse Restaurant! Reservations highly recommended; link in our bio. #MothersDayBrunch #MothersDay




It’s sweet-corn season, and we’ve added family platters of roasted corn-on-the-cob to our menu. Sourced from local farms, we pick the freshest and sweetest and roast it just right. #RoastedCorn #WelcomeFall #SweetCorn #FallHarvest




